README.md, before:

# MicroDataCleaning
Desktop app and Python program to make do-files for data cleaning from layout tables as well as the resulting do-files

## Overview
glmice automatically makes do-files to import fixed-length data using the layout
tables from MHLW or MIC or possibly other ministries and government offices.
- glmice.exe: Desktop app based on main.py.
- main.py: Main program to make do-files for data cleaning from layout
tables.
- do-file/: do-files used to import fixed-length data. Some files are
generated by glmice while other files are provided  by some contributers.
See docs/contributers.txt for the full list of the contributers.

![demo](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe/MicroDataCleaning/blob/e49a4f95313d5521ae9097957e5a630cb58e02a5/img/demo.gif)

## Requirement
- glmice.exe works without Python (Tested only under Windows 10).
- main.py works with Python3. You can download it from
[here](https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/). In addition, you need to
install
`python-Levenshtein`.
```
pip install python-Levenshtein
```

## Usage

### glmice

0. Download dist.zip from [release page](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe/MicroDataCleaning/releases), and launch dist/glmice/glmice.exe after unzipping dist.zip.
1. Fill input information (i.e., 'Excel file', 'Excel sheet index', 'Output file', 'Data file')
2. Push 'Add' button. Then, the information is added to the list.
You can check the added information by selecting it in the list and pushing 'Check' button.
3. Similarly, you can remove, if necessary, some inputs in the list by using 'Remove' button.
4. After adding all input information to the list, you may or may not fill 'Survey name',
which could help to harmonize the variable names across data in different years.
5. Push 'Run' button.

You can skip Steps 1-3 by making a csv file with the necessary input information.
Use docs/input_list_template.csv in such cases. Then, import that csv file
(File > Import).

### Main program
main.py is the main program to make do-files for data cleaning from layout tables.<br>
(The program is not currently registered in PyPI, so please download Source code (zip/tar.gz) from [release page](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe/MicroDataCleaning/releases))

```Python
Main(infile_list, index_list, outfile_list, data_list,
        xls=False, reservation=0.2, SurveyName=None)
"""
    infile_list: list of input files.
    (i.e., Excel files for the layout tables)

    index_list: list of Excel sheet indices (Count from 0).

    outfile_list: list of output file names.
    If outfile_list = ['File1', 'File2'], the resulting output files are
    'File1_const.do', 'File1_const.do', and so on.

    data_list: list of the raw data (in most cases, .txt or .dat files).

    xls: whether to make 'cleaned' layout sheet.
    (This option may be useful if you are an R user.)

    reservation: reservation distance which is used to make a do-file to
    harmonize several data. If the Levenshtein distance of two variables
    (from different survey years) is more than this reservation distance,
    those variables are judged to be different variables even if they are
    the closest pair. (You may not want to change this parameter, and rather
    making synonyms will be more useful.)

    SurveyName: Name of the survey (in Japanese). Specifying the survey name
    could improve variable matching process when harmonizing several data.

    Method defined here:

    run(): Run the program and make do-files.
"""
```

### Output files
- FILENAME_const.do: import fixed-length data.
- FILENAME_var.do: put variable labels.
- FILENAME_val.do: put value labels.
- FILENAME_validate.do: check if the data seems correctly imported.
- rename.do: rename variable names to append several data.
- master.do: run all do-files above, append data and save the dta file.
When using master.do, set global macro `DoFilePathTemp` and `DataFilePathTemp`
appropriately. (rename.do and master.do are made in the directory root
directory for `outfile_list`)
- rename.xls: summary of the variable matching result.
- FILENAME_layout.xls: clean layout table made when `xls=True`

### Example code
```Python
from main import Main

infile_list = [
    'RootPath/Layout/XXX.xls',
    'RootPath/Layout/YYY.xls',
    'RootPath/Layout/ZZZ.xlsx'
]

index_list = [0, 0, 0]

outfile_list = [
    'RootPath/do-file/XXX/XXX',
    'RootPath/do-file/YYY/YYY',
    'RootPath/do-file/ZZZ/ZZZ'
]

data_list = [
    'RootPath/data/raw/dataXXX.txt',
    'RootPath/data/raw/dataYYY.txt',
    'RootPath/data/raw/dataZZZ.txt'
]

main = Main(
    infile_list, sheet_index_list, outfile_list, data_list
)
main.run()
```

### Before running master.do ...
1. Add ado/CheckAppendValidity.ado and ado/DestringAll.ado to an appropriate
directory. You can check the path by typing `adopath` on Stata.
2. Check if rename.do correctly works. To that end, rename.xls may be useful.
In rename.xls, the cells are highlighted if the variable description
is not identical to the previous or next year data.

## Harmonize variable names across different survey years
Although the program automatically implement fuzzy variable matching based on
variable description and, if any, variable names, the matching is not very
successful in some cases. You can improve the matching quality by making
survey-specific synonym list such as [this one](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe/MicroDataCleaning/blob/a05351fff7c1aa95d8953de1ccd3fa16253af67f/python/module/Writers/VarNameThesaurus/Thesaurus/WageCensus.py), in which each word in a list
is replaced by the first element of the list when Levenshtein distance is measured.

The necessary procedure is as follows:
1. Make/modify a survey-specific thesaurus at 'python/module/Writers/VarNameThesaurus/Thesaurus/', and the variable name defined there should be `thesaurus_jargon`.
2. Then, modify `StrDistMeasureFactory` class in '/python/module/Writers/VarNameThesaurus/StrDistMeasure.py'. If the file name is 'NewThesaurus.py' and
the survey name is 'xxxSurvey', you need to add
```Python
elif SurveyName == 'xxxSurvey':
    from .Thesaurus.NewThesaurus import thesaurus_jargon
```
to the if clause in `StrDistMeasureFactory` class.
3. Run the main program with the SurveyName option (i.e., `SurveyName='xxxSurvey'`).

This survey-specific synonym list will be quite useful for other users, so your
contribution to provide it would be greatly appreciate.

## Remarks
- All file names are recommended to be specified with full paths. (Windows users should not use `\` (backslash/yen sign) to specify the path. Use `/` instead.)
- If the specified directory does not exist, it is made automatically.
- The generated do-files do not necessarily correct.
If you find something wrong regarding the program or
 the resulting do-file(s), please send email to [Email Address].
- \_validate.do checks if each variable has the values that it is supposed
to have (only for categorical variables).
- rename.do is generated by finding a variable with a similar variable
description and, if any, a similar variable name from the base data. So it is
quite likely that some variables are renamed incorrectly. Please check and
modify rename.do.
- Although value labels are put for each individual data, the labels are not
put for the appended data, because the categories for each variable are very
likely to be inconsistent across years.
- In addition, there is no file to make variable values consistent across
different data.

## License
Copyright (C) 2019 Takahiro Toriyabe

This software is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

## Author
[Takahiro-Toriyabe](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe)

Commit message:

Update README (about warning message when launching app)

README.md, after:

# MicroDataCleaning
Desktop app and Python program to make do-files for data cleaning from layout tables as well as the resulting do-files

## Overview
glmice automatically makes do-files to import fixed-length data using the layout
tables from MHLW or MIC or possibly other ministries and government offices.
- glmice.exe: Desktop app based on main.py.
- main.py: Main program to make do-files for data cleaning from layout
tables.
- do-file/: do-files used to import fixed-length data. Some files are
generated by glmice while other files are provided  by some contributers.
See docs/contributers.txt for the full list of the contributers.

![demo](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe/MicroDataCleaning/blob/e49a4f95313d5521ae9097957e5a630cb58e02a5/img/demo.gif)

## Requirement
- glmice.exe works without Python (Tested only under Windows 10).
- main.py works with Python3. You can download it from
[here](https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/). In addition, you need to
install
`python-Levenshtein`.
```
pip install python-Levenshtein
```

## Usage

### glmice

0. Download dist.zip from [release page](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe/MicroDataCleaning/releases), and launch dist/glmice/glmice.exe after unzipping dist.zip.
1. Fill input information (i.e., 'Excel file', 'Excel sheet index', 'Output file', 'Data file')
2. Push 'Add' button. Then, the information is added to the list.
You can check the added information by selecting it in the list and pushing 'Check' button.
3. Similarly, you can remove, if necessary, some inputs in the list by using 'Remove' button.
4. After adding all input information to the list, you may or may not fill 'Survey name',
which could help to harmonize the variable names across data in different years.
5. Push 'Run' button.

You can skip Steps 1-3 by making a csv file with the necessary input information.
Use docs/input_list_template.csv in such cases. Then, import that csv file
(File > Import).

When launching the application, you might see the following error message:
> **Windows protected your PC** <br>
Windows Defender SmartScreen prevented an unrecognized app from starting. Running this app might put your PC at risk.

or in Japanese
>  **Windows によって PC が保護されました**<br>
Windows Defender SmartScreen は認識されないアプリの起動を停止しました。このアプリを実行すると、PC に問題が起こる可能性があります。

In such cases, please click `More info` (or `詳細情報`) and then `Run anyway` (or `実行`).

### Main program
main.py is the main program to make do-files for data cleaning from layout tables.<br>
(The program is not currently registered in PyPI, so please download Source code (zip/tar.gz) from [release page](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe/MicroDataCleaning/releases))

```Python
Main(infile_list, index_list, outfile_list, data_list,
        xls=False, reservation=0.2, SurveyName=None)
"""
    infile_list: list of input files.
    (i.e., Excel files for the layout tables)

    index_list: list of Excel sheet indices (Count from 0).

    outfile_list: list of output file names.
    If outfile_list = ['File1', 'File2'], the resulting output files are
    'File1_const.do', 'File1_const.do', and so on.

    data_list: list of the raw data (in most cases, .txt or .dat files).

    xls: whether to make 'cleaned' layout sheet.
    (This option may be useful if you are an R user.)

    reservation: reservation distance which is used to make a do-file to
    harmonize several data. If the Levenshtein distance of two variables
    (from different survey years) is more than this reservation distance,
    those variables are judged to be different variables even if they are
    the closest pair. (You may not want to change this parameter, and rather
    making synonyms will be more useful.)

    SurveyName: Name of the survey (in Japanese). Specifying the survey name
    could improve variable matching process when harmonizing several data.

    Method defined here:

    run(): Run the program and make do-files.
"""
```

### Output files
- FILENAME_const.do: import fixed-length data.
- FILENAME_var.do: put variable labels.
- FILENAME_val.do: put value labels.
- FILENAME_validate.do: check if the data seems correctly imported.
- rename.do: rename variable names to append several data.
- master.do: run all do-files above, append data and save the dta file.
When using master.do, set global macro `DoFilePathTemp` and `DataFilePathTemp`
appropriately. (rename.do and master.do are made in the directory root
directory for `outfile_list`)
- rename.xls: summary of the variable matching result.
- FILENAME_layout.xls: clean layout table made when `xls=True`

### Example code
```Python
from main import Main

infile_list = [
    'RootPath/Layout/XXX.xls',
    'RootPath/Layout/YYY.xls',
    'RootPath/Layout/ZZZ.xlsx'
]

index_list = [0, 0, 0]

outfile_list = [
    'RootPath/do-file/XXX/XXX',
    'RootPath/do-file/YYY/YYY',
    'RootPath/do-file/ZZZ/ZZZ'
]

data_list = [
    'RootPath/data/raw/dataXXX.txt',
    'RootPath/data/raw/dataYYY.txt',
    'RootPath/data/raw/dataZZZ.txt'
]

main = Main(
    infile_list, sheet_index_list, outfile_list, data_list
)
main.run()
```

### Before running master.do ...
1. Add ado/CheckAppendValidity.ado and ado/DestringAll.ado to an appropriate
directory. You can check the path by typing `adopath` on Stata.
2. Check if rename.do correctly works. To that end, rename.xls may be useful.
In rename.xls, the cells are highlighted if the variable description
is not identical to the previous or next year data.

## Harmonize variable names across different survey years
Although the program automatically implement fuzzy variable matching based on
variable description and, if any, variable names, the matching is not very
successful in some cases. You can improve the matching quality by making
survey-specific synonym list such as [this one](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe/MicroDataCleaning/blob/a05351fff7c1aa95d8953de1ccd3fa16253af67f/python/module/Writers/VarNameThesaurus/Thesaurus/WageCensus.py), in which each word in a list
is replaced by the first element of the list when Levenshtein distance is measured.

The necessary procedure is as follows:
1. Make/modify a survey-specific thesaurus at 'python/module/Writers/VarNameThesaurus/Thesaurus/', and the variable name defined there should be `thesaurus_jargon`.
2. Then, modify `StrDistMeasureFactory` class in '/python/module/Writers/VarNameThesaurus/StrDistMeasure.py'. If the file name is 'NewThesaurus.py' and
the survey name is 'xxxSurvey', you need to add
```Python
elif SurveyName == 'xxxSurvey':
    from .Thesaurus.NewThesaurus import thesaurus_jargon
```
to the if clause in `StrDistMeasureFactory` class.
3. Run the main program with the SurveyName option (i.e., `SurveyName='xxxSurvey'`).

This survey-specific synonym list will be quite useful for other users, so your
contribution to provide it would be greatly appreciate.

## Remarks
- All file names are recommended to be specified with full paths. (Windows users should not use `\` (backslash/yen sign) to specify the path. Use `/` instead.)
- If the specified directory does not exist, it is made automatically.
- The generated do-files do not necessarily correct.
If you find something wrong regarding the program or
 the resulting do-file(s), please send email to [Email Address].
- \_validate.do checks if each variable has the values that it is supposed
to have (only for categorical variables).
- rename.do is generated by finding a variable with a similar variable
description and, if any, a similar variable name from the base data. So it is
quite likely that some variables are renamed incorrectly. Please check and
modify rename.do.
- Although value labels are put for each individual data, the labels are not
put for the appended data, because the categories for each variable are very
likely to be inconsistent across years.
- In addition, there is no file to make variable values consistent across
different data.

## License
Copyright (C) 2019 Takahiro Toriyabe

This software is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

## Author
[Takahiro-Toriyabe](https://github.com/Takahiro-Toriyabe)
